README.md, before:

The examples in this repository are support to the **[Spark in Action, 2nd edition](http://jgp.net/sia)** book by Jean Georges Perrin and published by Manning. Find out more about the book on [Manning's website](http://jgp.net/sia).

# Spark in Action, 2nd edition - chapter 4

Welcome to Spark with Java, chapter 4. This chapter is about laziness.

The dataset used in this chapter is NCHS' teen birth rates for age group 15 to 19 in the United States, divided by County, from 2003 to 2015.

## Lab

Each chapter has one or more labs. Labs are examples used for teaching in the book(https://www.manning.com/books/spark-in-action-second-edition?a_aid=jgp). You are encouraged to take ownership of the code and modify it, experiment with it, hence the use of the term **lab**. This chapter has only one lab.

### Lab \#200

The `TransformationAndActionApp` application does the following:

1.	It acquires a session (a `SparkSession`).
2.	It asks Spark to load (ingest) a dataset in CSV format.
3.	It demonstrates Spark's Transformation and action API.

## Running the lab in Java

For information on running the Java lab, see chapter 4 in [Spark in Action, 2nd edition](http://jgp.net/sia).

## Running the lab using PySpark

Prerequisites:

You will need:
 * `git`.
 * Apache Spark (please refer Appendix P - "Spark in production: installation and a few tips").

1. Clone this project

```
git clone https://github.com/jgperrin/net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

2. Go to the lab in the Python directory

```
cd net.jgp.books.spark.ch04/src/main/python/lab200_transformation_and_action/
```

3. Execute the following spark-submit command to create a jar file to our this application

```
spark-submit transformationActionApp.py
```

## Running the lab in Scala

Prerequisites:

You will need:
 * `git`.
 * Apache Spark (please refer Appendix P - "Spark in production: installation and a few tips"). 

1. Clone this project

```
git clone https://github.com/jgperrin/net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

2. Go to the lab directory

```
cd net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

3. Package application using the `sbt` command

```
sbt clean assembly
```

4. Run Spark/Scala application using spark-submit command as shown below:

```
spark-submit --class net.jgp.books.spark.ch04.lab200_transformation_and_action.TransformationAndActionScalaApp target/scala-2.12/SparkInAction2-Chapter04-assembly-1.0.0.jar
```

Notes: 
 1. [Java] Due to renaming the packages to match more closely Java standards, this project is not in sync with the book's MEAP prior to v10 (published in April 2019).
 2. [Scala, Python] As of MEAP v14, we have introduced Scala and Python examples (published in October 2019).
 3. With Spark v3.0.0 preview 2, the number of iterations in lab \#200 went from 60 to 10.
 
---

Follow me on Twitter to get updates about the book and Apache Spark: [@jgperrin](https://twitter.com/jgperrin). Join the book's community on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/SparkWithJava/) or in [Manning's community site](https://forums.manning.com/forums/spark-in-action-second-edition?a_aid=jgp).

Commit message:

This code is designed to work with Apache Spark v3.0.0.

README.md, after:

The examples in this repository are support to the **[Spark in Action, 2nd edition](http://jgp.net/sia)** book by Jean Georges Perrin and published by Manning. Find out more about the book on [Manning's website](http://jgp.net/sia).

# Spark in Action, 2nd edition - chapter 4

Welcome to Spark with Java, chapter 4. This chapter is about laziness.

The dataset used in this chapter is NCHS' teen birth rates for age group 15 to 19 in the United States, divided by County, from 2003 to 2015.

This code is designed to work with Apache Spark v3.0.0.

## Lab

Each chapter has one or more labs. Labs are examples used for teaching in the book(https://www.manning.com/books/spark-in-action-second-edition?a_aid=jgp). You are encouraged to take ownership of the code and modify it, experiment with it, hence the use of the term **lab**. This chapter has only one lab.

### Lab \#200

The `TransformationAndActionApp` application does the following:

1.	It acquires a session (a `SparkSession`).
2.	It asks Spark to load (ingest) a dataset in CSV format.
3.	It demonstrates Spark's Transformation and action API.

## Running the lab in Java

For information on running the Java lab, see chapter 4 in [Spark in Action, 2nd edition](http://jgp.net/sia).

## Running the lab using PySpark

Prerequisites:

You will need:
 * `git`.
 * Apache Spark (please refer Appendix P - "Spark in production: installation and a few tips").

1. Clone this project

```
git clone https://github.com/jgperrin/net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

2. Go to the lab in the Python directory

```
cd net.jgp.books.spark.ch04/src/main/python/lab200_transformation_and_action/
```

3. Execute the following spark-submit command to create a jar file to our this application

```
spark-submit transformationActionApp.py
```

## Running the lab in Scala

Prerequisites:

You will need:
 * `git`.
 * Apache Spark (please refer Appendix P - "Spark in production: installation and a few tips"). 

1. Clone this project

```
git clone https://github.com/jgperrin/net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

2. Go to the lab directory

```
cd net.jgp.books.spark.ch04
```

3. Package application using the `sbt` command

```
sbt clean assembly
```

4. Run Spark/Scala application using spark-submit command as shown below:

```
spark-submit --class net.jgp.books.spark.ch04.lab200_transformation_and_action.TransformationAndActionScalaApp target/scala-2.12/SparkInAction2-Chapter04-assembly-1.0.0.jar
```

Notes: 
 1. [Java] Due to renaming the packages to match more closely Java standards, this project is not in sync with the book's MEAP prior to v10 (published in April 2019).
 2. [Scala, Python] As of MEAP v14, we have introduced Scala and Python examples (published in October 2019).
 3. With Spark v3.0.0 preview 2, the number of iterations in lab \#200 went from 60 to 10.
 
---

Follow me on Twitter to get updates about the book and Apache Spark: [@jgperrin](https://twitter.com/jgperrin). Join the book's community on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/SparkWithJava/) or in [Manning's community site](https://forums.manning.com/forums/spark-in-action-second-edition?a_aid=jgp).
